So welcome back, guys.
Now in this section of the courts, we're going to cover bitmaps, so bitmap is nothing, but it is
an array of bits.
So you must be thinking that since it is not original structure that is available to us in our programming
language, how can we create an aerial bits?
So that's what we are going to understand in this section of the course.
So let's say you have a person which comes with a theatre ticket and the ticket to have a seat.
No, but just 13.
And let's say that the capacity of the theater is 28.
That is, maximum number of persons that can be seated in a theater is 28.
So as soon as this person enters into the theater, the theater authority marks the corresponding seat
as a result.
So what is the appropriate way to keep track of the seats which are reserved or not?
So simply, you can take a bitmap, which is an array a bit.
And since the person?
No.
And since the person with ticket number 13 has arrived, you can mark the bit number 13 in this area
as one.
All right.
So instead of taking an array of bullets and we already know that bullying takes a size of four bites
on most compilers and programming languages, so it would have taken a lot more memory to you if you
had declared an edit, a Boolean, and instead if you take an array of bits, then you would see a lot
more memory.
In fact, the memory consumption of your program was reduced from X to X by eight.
If instead of creating an of Boolean, you create an error beds.
To keep track of 28 seats, you need a bowling alley of size 28.
So 28 in the size of the bowling, the pipe is four bytes, so to comes two hundred and twelve bytes.
Whereas if you are taking a bet, any and all you need is 28 bits.
So 28, which is not even four bytes, so you can see how much size you see.
So going farther, memory is always allocated in units of bytes and not bits.
So you need to create a rapid API which work on byte addressable memory.
Byte addressable memory means every bite has an address.
But your program should be able to perform the operation at the bit level.
So let us try to understand this point.
So when your program and walks on my log column, your program is allocated for bytes of memory.
You have never seen any system call or any kind of API, which allocates a memory in units of bits.
So as soon as your program invokes familiar calls, a four by memory, which is represented by a snapshot
one is assigned to your program and your program can read and write into these memory locations.
What we are looking to do is that this form of memory, which is allocated to your program, should
be treated as an array of 32 bits.
So Snapshot two represents the same chunk of memory that is the same memory as a snapshot one.
But your program should have wrapper APIs so that it sees this for byte of memory as 32 bit of memory.
All right.
Your program should be able to access each an individual bit of this war by memory.
So, for example, if I ask you that.
Go to index number 18 and set the bed to one that in your program should be able to go to the index
number 18 and set to submit to one.
All right, so your program request and release the memory in units of bytes, but your program treats
those bytes of memory as an array of bits.
In fact, you need to create an illusion through wrapper APIs using which you can read byte addressable
memory at the bit level.
So going further?
So how to create any of size and bits?
So for that, we can create a data structure which represents a bitmap.
This guy to start with is a pointer to the memory, which is byte addressable.
That is, it is a chunk of memory which is returned by Malak or Kalak calls, and every size represents
the number of beds.
So for example, let's say if an is equal to forty five, then your program must block at least six
bytes of memory.
And within the six bytes off memory, a program must be able to access each and every individual bits
from index location zero to forty four.
All right.
So this is what we are looking to achieve.
So going further, how will you malloc this data structure?
So simple.
First of all, you need to calculate how many bytes you need to Malaak in order to satisfy your need
of end bits.
This you can compute using this formula.
Then you can block the memory to represent your bitmap, and then you can log the memory in units of
bytes.
And it is this memory which you need to treat it as an array of bits.
And this addresses member will hold the size of the array in terms of number of bits.
So basically, this data structure represents an array of bits.